Articles where LADiM has a role


----- 2021 --------

B. Finstad, A.D. Sandvik, O. Ugedal, K.W. Vollset, Ø. Karlsen, J.G. Davidsen, H. Sægrov,
and R.J. Lennox, 2021, Development of a risk assessment method for sea trout in coastal
areas exploited for aquaculture, Aquacult. Environ. Interact., 13, 133–144.

P.E. Jorde, M.B.O. Huserbråten, B.B. Seliussen, M.S. Myksvoll, F.B. Vikebø, G. Dahle, A.
Aglen, and T. Johansen, 2021, The making of a genetic cline: introgression of oceanic
genes into coastal cod populations in the North East Atlantic, Can. J. Fish. Aquat. Sci.,
doi:10.1139/cjfas-2020-0380,


A.D. Sandvik, S. Bui, M. Huserbråten, Ø. Karlsen, M.S. Myksvoll, B. Ådlandsvik, and I.A.
Johnsen, 2021, The development of a sustainability assessment indicator and its response
to management changes as derived from salmon lice dispersal modelling, ICES J. Mar. Sci.,
doi:10.1093/icesjms/fsab077,

--------- 2020 ----------

L. Asplin, J. Albretsen, I.A. Johnsen, and A.D Sandvik, 2020, The hydrodynamic foundation
for salmon lice dispersion modeling along the Norwegian coast, Ocean Dynamics, 70,
1151–1167

M.A. Carvajalino-Fernández, P.N. Sævik, I.A. Johnsen, J. Albretsen, and N.B. Keeley,
2020, Simulating particle organic matter dispersal beneath Atlantic salmon fish farms
using different resuspension approaches, Mar. Poll. Bull., 161, 111685.

A. Cresci, A.D. Sandvik, P.N. Sævik, B. Ådlandsvik, M.J Olascoaga, P. Miron C.M.F. Durif,
A.B. Skiftesvik, H.I. Browman, and F. Vikebø, 2020, The lunar compass of European glass
eels (Anguilla anguilla) increases the probability that they recruit to North Sea coasts,
Fish. Oceanogr., doi:10.1111/fog.12521,

T. Crosbie, D.W. Wright, F. Oppedal, S. Dalvin, M.S. Myksvoll, and T. Dempster, 2020,
Impact of thermoclines on the vertical distribution of salmon lice larvae, Aquacult.
Environ. Interact., 12, 1–10.

H. Gjøsæter, M. Huserbråten, F. Vikebø, and E. Eriksen, 2020, Key processes regulating
the early life history of Barents Sea polar cod, Polar Biol., 41, 1015–1027.

I.A. Johnsen, A. Harvey, P.N. Sævik, A.D. Sandvik, O. Ugedal, B. Ådlandsvik, V. Wennevik,
K.A. Glover, and Ø. Karlsen, 2020, Salmon lice-induced mortality of Atlantic salmon
during post-smolt migration in Norway, ICES J. Mar. Sci, doi:10.1093/icesjms/fsaa202,

T. Kutti, I.A. Johnsen, K.S. Skaar, J.L. Ray, V. Husa, and T.G. Dahlgren, 2020,
Quantification of eDNA to Map the Distribution of Cold-Water Coral Reefs, Front. Mar.
Sci., 12, 446.


M.S. Myksvoll, A.D. Sandvik, I.A. Johnsen, J. Skarðhamar, and J. Albretsen, 2020, Impact
of variable physical conditions and future increased aquaculture production on lice
infestation pressure and its sustainability in Norway, Aquacult. Environ. Interact., 12,
193–204.

A.E. Parsons, R.H. Escobar-Lux, P.N. Sævik, O.B. Samuelsen, and A.-L. Agnalt, 2020, The
impact of anti-sea lice pesticides, azamethiphos and deltamethrin,on European lobster
(Homarus gammarus) larvae in the Norwegian marine environment, Env. Poll., 264, 114725.

A.D. Sandvik, I.A. Johnsen, M.S. Myksvoll, P.N. Sævik, and M.D. Skogen, 2020, Prediction
of the salmon lice infestation pressure in a Norwegian fjord, ICES J. Mar. Sci., 77,
746–756.

R. Skern-Mauritzen, N.H. Sissener, A.D. Sandvik, S. Meier, P.N. Sævik, M.D. Skogen, T.
Vågseth, S. Dalvin, M. Skern-Mauritzen, and S. Bui, 2020, Parasite development affect
dispersal dynamics; infectivity, activity and energetic status in cohorts of salmon louse
copepodids, J. Exp. Mar. Biol. Ecol., 530-531, 151429.

---------- 2019 -------------

T. Crosbie, D.W. Wright, F. Oppedal, I.A. Johnsen, F. Samsing, and T. Dempster, 2019,
Effects of step salinity gradients on salmon lice larvae behaviour and dispersal,
Aquacult. Environ. Interact., 11, 181–190.

M. Huserbråten, E. Eriksen, H. Gjøsæter, and F. Vikebø, 2019, Polar cod in jeopardy
under the retreating Arctic sea ice, Comms. Bio., 2, 1–8

F. Samsing, I. Johnsen, E.A. Treml, and T. Dempster, 2019, Identifying ‘firebreaks’ to
fragment dispersal networks of a marine parasite, Int. J. Parasitology, 49, 277–286.

J. Skarðhamar, M.N. Fagerli, M. Reigstad, A.D. Sandvik, and P.A. Bjørn , 2019, Sampling
planktonic salmon lice in Norwegian fjords, Aquacult. Environ. Interact., 701–715.

- Gamle ladim?
K.O. Strand, F. Vikebø, S. Sundby, A.K. Sperrevik, and Ø. Breivik, 2019, Subsurface
maxima in buoyant fish eggs indicate vertical velocity shear and spatially limited
spawning grounds, Limnol. Oceanogr., 64, 1239–51.



M.S. Myksvoll, A.D. Sandvik, J. Albretsen, L. Asplin, I.A. Johnsen, Ø. Karlsen, N.M.
Kristensen, A. Melsom, J. Skarðhamar, and B. Ådlandsvik, 2018, Evaluation of a national
operational salmon lice monitoring system—From physics to fish, PLoS ONE, 13, e0201338.

J.Skarðhamar, J. Albretsen, A.D. Sandvik, V.S. Lien, M.S. Myksvoll, I.A. Johnsen, L.
Asplin, B. Ådlandsvik, E. Halttunen, and P.A. Bjørn, 2018, Modelled salmon lice
dispersion and infestation patterns in a sub-arctic fjord, ICES J. Mar. Sci., 75,
1733–1747.


 