Articles using LADiM
====================

2022
----

M.B.O. Huserbråten, T. Hattermann, C. Broms, and J. Albretsen, 2022, Trans‑polar
drift‑pathways of riverine European microplastic, Sci. Rep., 12, 3016.

M.B.O. Huserbråten and I.A. Johnsen, 2022, Seasonal tempetature regulates network
connectivity of salmon louse, ICES J. Mar. Sci., 79, 1075–1082.

P.N. Sævik, A.-L. Agnalt, O.B. Samuelsen, and M. Myksvoll, 2022, Modelling chemical
releases from fish farms: impact zones, dissolution time, and exposure probability, ICES
J. Mar. Sci., 79, 22–33.

2021
----

B. Finstad, A.D. Sandvik, O. Ugedal, K.W. Vollset, Ø. Karlsen, J.G. Davidsen, H. Sægrov,
and R.J. Lennox, 2021, Development of a risk assessment method for sea trout in coastal
areas exploited for aquaculture, Aquacult. Environ. Interact., 13, 133–144.

T. Bøhn, R. Nilsen, K.Ø. Gjelland, M. Biuw, A.D. Sandvik, R. Primicerio, Ø. Karlsen, and
R.M. Serra-Llinares, 2021, Salmon louse infestation levels on sea trout can be
predicted from a hydrodynamic lice dispersal, J. Appl. Ecol., 59, 704–714.

A. Coates, I.A. Johnsen, T. Dempster, and B.L. Phillips, 2021, Parasite management in
aquaculture exerts selection on salmon louse behaviour, Evol. Appl., 14, 2025–2038.

A. Cresci, A.D. Sandvik, P.N. Sævik, B. Ådlandsvik, M.J. Olascoaga, P. Miron, C.M.F.
Durif, A.B. Skiftesvik, H.I. Browman, and F. Vikebø, 2021, The lunar compass of
European glass eels (Anguilla anguilla) increases the probability that they recruit to
North Sea coasts, Fish. Oceanogr., 30, 315–330.

B.T. Haugland, C.S. Armitage, T. Kutti, V. Husa, M.D. Skogen, T. Bekkby, M.A.
Carvajalino-Fernández, R.J. Bannister, C.A. White, K.M. Norderhaug, and S. Fredriksen,
2021, Large-scale salmon farming in Norway impacts the epiphytic community of Laminaria
hyperborea, Aquacult. Environ. Interact., 13, 81–100.

I.A. Johnsen, A. Harvey, P.N. Sævik, A.D. Sandvik, O. Ugedal, B. Ådlandsvik, V. Wennevik,
K.A. Glover, and Ø. Karlsen, 2021, Salmon lice-induced mortality of Atlantic salmon
during post-smolt migration in Norway, ICES J. Mar. Sci., 78, 142–154.

P.E. Jorde, M.B.O. Huserbråten, B.B. Seliussen, M.S. Myksvoll, F.B. Vikebø, G. Dahle, A.
Aglen, and T. Johansen, 2021, The making of a genetic cline: introgression of oceanic
genes into coastal cod populations in the North East Atlantic, Can. J. Fish. Aquat. Sci.,
78, 958–968.

M.S. Myksvoll, J. Devine, M. Quintela, A.J. Geffen, R.D.M. Nash, A. Sandvik, F. Besnier,
A. Saha, G. Dahle, E. Jansson, K. Nedreaas, and Torild Johansen, 2021, Linking dispersal
connectivity to population structure and management boundaries for saithe in the
Northeast Atlantic, Mar. Ecol. Prog. Ser., 680, 177–191.

A.D. Sandvik, S. Bui, M. Huserbråten, Ø. Karlsen, M.S. Myksvoll, B. Ådlandsvik, and I.A.
Johnsen, 2021, The development of a sustainability assessment indicator and its response
to management changes as derived from salmon lice dispersal modelling, ICES J. Mar. Sci.,
78, 1781–1792.

A.D. Sandvik, S. Dalvin, R. Skern-Mauritzen, and M.D. Skogen, 2021, The effect of a
warmer climate on the salmon lice infection pressure from Norwegian aquaculture, ICES J.
Mar. Sci., 78, 1849–1859.


2020
----

L. Asplin, J. Albretsen, I.A. Johnsen, and A.D Sandvik, 2020, The hydrodynamic foundation
for salmon lice dispersion modeling along the Norwegian coast, Ocean Dynamics, 70,
1151–1167

M.A. Carvajalino-Fernández, P.N. Sævik, I.A. Johnsen, J. Albretsen, and N.B. Keeley,
2020, Simulating particle organic matter dispersal beneath Atlantic salmon fish farms
using different resuspension approaches, Mar. Poll. Bull., 161, 111685.

T. Crosbie, D.W. Wright, F. Oppedal, S. Dalvin, M.S. Myksvoll, and T. Dempster, 2020,
Impact of thermoclines on the vertical distribution of salmon lice larvae, Aquacult.
Environ. Interact., 12, 1–10.

H. Gjøsæter, M. Huserbråten, F. Vikebø, and E. Eriksen, 2020, Key processes regulating
the early life history of Barents Sea polar cod, Polar Biol., 41, 1015–1027.


T. Kutti, I.A. Johnsen, K.S. Skaar, J.L. Ray, V. Husa, and T.G. Dahlgren, 2020,
Quantification of eDNA to Map the Distribution of Cold-Water Coral Reefs, Front. Mar.
Sci., 12, 446.

M.S. Myksvoll, A.D. Sandvik, I.A. Johnsen, J. Skarðhamar, and J. Albretsen, 2020, Impact
of variable physical conditions and future increased aquaculture production on lice
infestation pressure and its sustainability in Norway, Aquacult. Environ. Interact., 12,
193–204.

A.E. Parsons, R.H. Escobar-Lux, P.N. Sævik, O.B. Samuelsen, and A.-L. Agnalt, 2020, The
impact of anti-sea lice pesticides, azamethiphos and deltamethrin,on European lobster
(Homarus gammarus) larvae in the Norwegian marine environment, Env. Poll., 264, 114725.

A.D. Sandvik, I.A. Johnsen, M.S. Myksvoll, P.N. Sævik, and M.D. Skogen, 2020, Prediction
of the salmon lice infestation pressure in a Norwegian fjord, ICES J. Mar. Sci., 77,
746–756.

R. Skern-Mauritzen, N.H. Sissener, A.D. Sandvik, S. Meier, P.N. Sævik, M.D. Skogen, T.
Vågseth, S. Dalvin, M. Skern-Mauritzen, and S. Bui, 2020, Parasite development affect
dispersal dynamics; infectivity, activity and energetic status in cohorts of salmon louse
copepodids, J. Exp. Mar. Biol. Ecol., 530-531, 151429.

2019
----

T. Crosbie, D.W. Wright, F. Oppedal, I.A. Johnsen, F. Samsing, and T. Dempster, 2019,
Effects of step salinity gradients on salmon lice larvae behaviour and dispersal,
Aquacult. Environ. Interact., 11, 181–190.

M. Huserbråten, E. Eriksen, H. Gjøsæter, and F. Vikebø, 2019, Polar cod in jeopardy
under the retreating Arctic sea ice, Comms. Bio., 2, 1–8

F. Samsing, I. Johnsen, E.A. Treml, and T. Dempster, 2019, Identifying ‘firebreaks’ to
fragment dispersal networks of a marine parasite, Int. J. Parasitology, 49, 277–286.

J. Skarðhamar, M.N. Fagerli, M. Reigstad, A.D. Sandvik, and P.A. Bjørn , 2019, Sampling
planktonic salmon lice in Norwegian fjords, Aquacult. Environ. Interact., 701–715.

M.S. Myksvoll, A.D. Sandvik, J. Albretsen, L. Asplin, I.A. Johnsen, Ø. Karlsen, N.M.
Kristensen, A. Melsom, J. Skarðhamar, and B. Ådlandsvik, 2018, Evaluation of a national
operational salmon lice monitoring system—From physics to fish, PLoS ONE, 13, e0201338.

J. Skarðhamar, J. Albretsen, A.D. Sandvik, V.S. Lien, M.S. Myksvoll, I.A. Johnsen, L.
Asplin, B. Ådlandsvik, E. Halttunen, and P.A. Bjørn, 2018, Modelled salmon lice
dispersion and infestation patterns in a sub-arctic fjord, ICES J. Mar. Sci., 75,
1733–1747.
 